= Overview =
Apogy is based on Eclipse platform ([https://www.eclipse.org https://www.eclipse.org]).  It makes use of 3D so it is important to install latest & stable version of graphics card 3D drivers.  The current guide provide instructions that must be followed carefully.

== Supported Platforms ==
* 32-bit Windows
* 64-bit Windows
* 32-bit Linux (GTK)
* 64-bit Linux (GTK) 

= Required Update Sites =
{|
! Name
! Description
! URLs
|-
| Apogy OTS
| Apogy third party library bundles.
| [ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy_ots/repository/latest/ ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy_ots/repository/latest/]
|-
| Apogy
| Apogy core, examples, doc bundles.
| [ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy/repository/latest/ ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy/repository/latest/]
|-
| Sirius
| DSL Workbenches Designer 
| [http://download.eclipse.org/sirius/updates/releases/3.1.1/mars http://download.eclipse.org/sirius/updates/releases/3.1.1/mars]
|-
| Orbit
| Official Eclipse bundled third party libraries.
| [http://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/drops/R20150821153341/repository/ http://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/drops/R20150821153341/repository/]
|-
| Nebula
| SWT widgets library.
| [http://download.eclipse.org/technology/nebula/snapshot http://download.eclipse.org/technology/nebula/snapshot]
|}
= Table Of Contents =
__TOC__
= Eclipse SDK = 
== Java Virtual Machine ==
# Ensure a proper Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is installed on your system (1.8 or higher).  You can download JRE from [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html].  
# The virtual machine must be accessible in the PATH.  Type the following commands in a system shell to verify the installed java version.<pre>java -version&#10;openjdk version "1.8.0_51"&#10;OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_51-b16)&#10;OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.51-b03, mixed mode)</pre>

== Oomph ==
To install Eclipse platform, we highly recommend to use Eclipse Installer also known as Oomph.
# Get the Eclipse Installer from [https://wiki.eclipse.org/Eclipse_Oomph_Installer https://wiki.eclipse.org/Eclipse_Oomph_Installer]
# Extract the archive under '''<ECLIPSE_INSTALLER_HOME>'''.
# Ensure a proper Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is installed on your system (1.8 or higher).  You can download JRE from [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html]
# Copy '''<JRE_HOME>''' directory into '''<ECLIPSE_INSTALLER_HOME>''' directory. You may also use a symbolic link.  <pre>eclipse&#10;  configuration&#10;  eclipse&#10;  eclipse.ini&#10;  features&#10;  plugins&#10;  jre      <<<< must include /bin/java&#10;  ...</pre>
# Launch '''<ECLIPSE_INSTALLER_HOME>/eclipse'''
# Select Eclipse Modeling Tools
# Select '''Latest Release (Mars)''' as Product Version
# Select a proper JRE 1.8+ 
# Set the '''Installation Folder''' (e.g. '''<ECLIPSE_HOME>''')
# Click on Install
# Once completed, edit '''<ECLIPSE_HOME>/eclipse.ini''' and change the following lines that set VM memory parameters (see below).  <pre>-Xms256m                              <<<< Replace by -Xms2048m &#10;-Xmx1024m                             <<<< Replace by -Xmx2048m</pre>
# Save your changes.
# Launch the '''<ECLIPSE_HOME>/eclipse'''.
# The '''Workspace Launcher''' dialog will prompt.  Select the location of a new or an existing workspace.  The workspace will contain the information related to your Apogy session.
= Eclipse Features =
== Eclipse Mars Packages ==
# Install the following packages:
#* Modeling \ EMF - Eclipse Modeling Framework Xcore SDK
== Sirius Packages ==
# Add the '''Sirius''' P2 Site [http://download.eclipse.org/sirius/updates/releases/3.1.1/mars http://download.eclipse.org/sirius/updates/releases/3.1.1/mars].
# Install the following packages:
#* Sirius/Sirius Core Runtime
#* Sirius/Sirius Runtime Support for Acceleo 3
== Orbit Packages ==
# Add the '''Orbit''' P2 Site [http://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/drops/R20150821153341/repository/ http://download.eclipse.org/tools/orbit/downloads/drops/R20150821153341/repository/]
# Install the following packages:
#* Orbit Bundles By Name: org.apache.*/org.apache.commons.collections (Be careful select the one that is not the source plugin (1st on top))
#* Orbit Bundles By Name: org.apache.*/org.apache.commons.net
#* Orbit Bundles By Name: org.apache.*/org.apache.commons.pool
== Nebula Packages ==
# Add the '''Nebula''' P2 Site [http://download.eclipse.org/technology/nebula/snapshot http://download.eclipse.org/technology/nebula/snapshot]
# Install the following packages:
#* Nebula Release Individual Widgets/Nebula Gallery Widget
= Apogy =
Apogy is composed of a series of Eclipse features.  The following steps present the way to install them.
== Apogy Third Party Features ==
# Add the '''Apogy OTS''' P2 Site [ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy_ots/repository/latest/ ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy_ots/repository/latest/].
# Install the following packages:
#* Apogy Off The Shelves (OTS)
== Apogy Features ==
# Add the '''Apogy''' P2 Site [ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy/repository/latest/ ftp://ftp.asc-csa.gc.ca/users/apogy/pub/apogy/repository/latest/].
# Install the following packages:
#* Apogy
= Known Issues =
# export SWT_GTK3=0