= Symphony RCP Installation & Configuration=
All Symphony RCP applications are based on the same foundation and are packaged the same way.  Symphony RCP applications are self-contained and are packaged in zip format.  Symphony supports the following platform:
*Windows 32 bits
*Windows 64 bits
*Linux GTK 32 bits
*Linux GTK 64 bits
== Java Virtual Machine ==
# Ensure a proper Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is installed on your system (1.8 or higher).  You can download JRE from [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html].  
# The virtual machine must be accessible in the PATH.  Type the following commands in a system shell to verify the installed java version.<pre>java -version&#10;openjdk version "1.8.0_51"&#10;OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_51-b16)&#10;OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.51-b03, mixed mode)</pre>
== 3D Acceleration ==
Symphony makes use of 3D.  It is important to install latest & stable version of graphics card 3D drivers.
== Symphony Rich Client Platform Applications ==
# Install Symphony RCP Application<pre>unzip symphony.product-linux.gtk.x86_64.zip</pre>
# Launch Symphony RCP Application<pre>cd symphony&#10;./symphony (Symphony executable)</pre>
== Select Workspace ==
# The '''Workspace Launcher''' dialog will prompt.  Select the location of the new or the existing workspace.  The workspace will contain the information related to your Symphony session.

= Symphony SDK Installation & Configuration=
== Eclipse ==
Symphony is based on Eclipse.  The first installation step is the proper installation and configuration of Eclipse.  Eclipse configuration details can be found on [https://www.eclipse.org https://www.eclipse.org].
# Download Eclipse Classic (Luna 4.4 or newer) from [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads http://www.eclipse.org/downloads].
## On the right bar, select Under More Downloads, '''Other Platforms'''.
## Under '''Latest Downloads''', select the first element (e.g. 4.4.2).
## Browse below and go to '''Eclipse SDK''', then select the appropriate platform.
# Unzip eclipse package on your local drive.
# Ensure a proper Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is installed on your system (1.8 or higher).  You can download JRE from [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html]
# Copy <JRE_HOME> directory into <ECLIPSE_HOME> directory.<pre>eclipse&#10;  configuration&#10;  eclipse&#10;  eclipse.ini&#10;  features&#10;  plugins&#10;  jre (must include /bin/java)&#10;  ...</pre>
# Open the file <ECLIPSE_HOME>/eclipse.ini with your favorite editor.
# Set the Java Virtual Machine (VM) options.<pre>-vmargs&#10;-Xms1024m&#10;-Xmx4096m    <=== ENSURE TO SET THIS VALUE HIGHER THAN 2048m</pre>
# Save your changes.
# Launch the Eclipse executable.<pre>./eclipse</pre>
# Select the workspace location.
# Install XCore Feature.
## Click on menu '''Help->Install New Software...'''
## Select Luna - http://download.eclipse.org/releases/luna in the combo box identified as '''Work with'''.
## Expand Modeling and check EMF - Eclipse Modeling Framework Xcore SDK.
## Click on '''Next >''' button.
## Review the install details and click on '''Next >''' button again.
## Check '''I accept the terms of the license agreement''' and click on '''Finish''' button.
## Wait until all required packages are downloaded.
## On '''Security Warning''' dialog click on '''Ok''' and continue with the installation.
## Wait for the completion of the installation.  
## A dialog will then appear to request you to restart Eclipse.  Click on '''Yes''' button.

== Repositories ==

<pre>Please refer to section Symphony Updates for additional instructions related to deployment's updates on existing installation.</pre>

=== Eclipse CSA Repository ===
Symphony is composed of a series of Eclipse features.  The following steps present the way to install them.
# Create a directory to store the Eclipse CSA Repository locally.<pre>cd ~; mkdir tmp</pre>
# Copy a release of '''csa_eclipse_public_repository''' from [http://liberty.speng.space.gc.ca/eclipse/repository/builds CSA Eclipse Repository]<pre>cp csa_eclipse_public_repository_0_3.tgz ~/tmp</pre>
# Extract the content <pre>tar -xvf csa_eclipse_public_repository_0_3.tgz</pre>
# Launch the Eclipse executable.<pre>cd $ECLIPSE_HOME&#10;./eclipse</pre>
# Select the workspace location.
# Click on menu '''Help->Install New Software...'''
# Click on '''Add''' button to enter a new Eclipse Repository entry.
# Add Repository Dialog will appear.  Click on '''Local''' button.
# Browse the file system and select the file '''~/tmp/latest'''
# '''Select All''' and click on '''Next'''.
# On '''Install Details''' click on '''Next'''.
# On the '''Review Licenses''', check '''I accept the terms of the license agreements''' and click on '''Finish'''.
# On '''Install Details''' click on '''Next'''.
# On '''Review Licenses''', check '''I accept the terms of the license agreements''' and click on '''Finish'''.
# When the '''Security Warning''' dialog appears, click on '''Ok'''.
# At the end of the installation process, a dialog request you if '''you would like to restart now'''.  Click on '''Yes'''.

=== Eclipse ESM Repository ===
ESM repository contains all the ESM features (e.g. MESR, Juno, SMA etc).  The following steps present the way to install them.
# Create a directory to store the ESM Repository locally.<pre>cd ~; mkdir tmp</pre>
# Copy a release of '''csa_esm_repository''' from [http://liberty.speng.space.gc.ca/eclipse/repository/builds CSA Repository]on your local drive.<pre>cp csa_esm_repository_0_1.tgz ~/tmp</pre>
# Extract the content <pre>tar -xvf csa_esm_repository_0_1.tgz</pre>
# Launch the Eclipse executable.<pre>cd $ECLIPSE_HOME&#10;./eclipse</pre>
# Select the workspace location.
# Click on menu '''Help->Install New Software...'''
# Click on '''Add''' button to enter a new Eclipse Repository entry.
# Add Repository Dialog will appear.  Click on '''Local''' button.
# Browse the file system and select the file ~/tmp/esm/latest
# '''Select All''' and click on '''Next'''.
# On '''Install Details''' click on '''Next'''.
# On '''Review Licenses''', check '''I accept the terms of the license agreements''' and click on '''Finish'''.
# When the '''Security Warning''' dialog appears, click on '''Ok'''.
# At the end of the installation process, a dialog request you if '''you would like to restart now'''.  Click on '''Yes'''.

=== Symphony Updates ===

We have found some situation where the update process does not deploy properly the updated plugins.  We recommend to uninstall prior the deployment of new updates.
# Go into '''Help->Install New Software…'''
# Click on the link '''What is already installed?'''
# Select the '''Installed Software''' tab.
# Select all items with '''CSA''' or '''ESM''' in their name and then click '''Uninstall'''.
# Follow the uninstall steps.
# The install the new version. In the install procedure, only the Eclipse CSA Repository and Eclipse ESM Repository needs to be re-installed.

= Issues =
== Eclipse Luna GTK3 Problem ==
If icons do not appear properly in the IDE you may need to specify the following environment variable prior launching Eclipse.
<pre>
export SWT_GTK3=0
</pre>
